[wind blowing]
‐ [chuckles]
I guess I should bring you two
up to speed, huh.
It all started three years ago.
I was still a little kid
who didn't know my left
from my right.
[music playing]
[bird squawking]
‐ Moroha.
‐ Yes, Master?
Is there something you needed?
‐ Further into this cave here,
the crucible of Kodoku will soon
begin its honored tradition.
‐ Crucible of what now?
‐ It's a spell of Fuko
used in Onmyodo.
Within this cave,
there are hundreds of demons
fighting amongst each other...
and the last one left standing
will become known as Kodoku,
the strongest demon.
‐ [swallows]
Wait.
You're not asking me
to go in there, are you?
‐ Yes, I am.
‐ [gasps]
‐ I want you to throw yourself
into that battle and survive.
If you emerge victorious,
as a symbol of completing
your final training,
I will reward you
with my prized Kurikaramaru.
‐ You would really
give that to me?
‐ It's been three whole years
since you were entrusted to me
by the chief
of the Wolf‐Demon Tribe.
This will be your final lesson,
after which your training
will be complete.
‐ [sighs]
[Japanese music playing]
TOWA: "Double‐Edged Moroha."
‐ [panting]
[demon grunts]
[snarls]
[growls]
‐ [groans] Backed into a corner.
There's no choice.
I gotta use this.
YAWARAGI: You are not allowed
to use that rouge.
‐ Why the hell not?!
I'm still just a kid,
so I need to become Beniyasha
if I'm gonna be strong enough
to take out
a Kodoku demon alone.
What do you want from me?!
‐ Instead of setting your sights
on the kill,
you should be focused
on holding on to yourself
in the midst of battle.
Don't lose faith!
You just have to use
the extent of your imagination
to seize victory.
‐ What the heck
does she mean by that?
‐ You cannot use your rouge.
Is that clear?
‐ OK, fine,
if that's how it's gotta be.
DEMON: It's just you and me,
little girl,
and there can only be
one left standing!
‐ Hey, are you sure
we can't talk this over?
Why don't we
just put our heads together
and help each other
out of this cave instead?
‐ You must be joking.
Work together?
What kind of demon are you?
Wait. Is that... [inhales]
human blood I smell?
‐ That's a pretty good nose
you got there.
I'm a quarter‐demon.
‐ What? How could
a mere quarter‐demon
still be alive inside
this cesspool of demon energy?
‐ [scoffs] That's 'cause
I have spirit power
that's able
to purify demon energy.
‐ Ridiculous.
To think that such
an impure presence like you
was allowed
to muddy up our ritual.
Hey, gambling bookie,
I know you're listening!
What's the meaning
of putting the purity
of our race in danger?!
‐ [groans] Why don't
you shut the hell up
about these
stupid little details?!
Blades of Blood!
‐ [grunts]
Hmm? Eh?
‐ Eat this!
‐ Hmm? [groaning]
Sorry, pal,
but I think I'm about ready
to pack up and call it a day.
‐ [groaning]
‐ Hey, I gave you a chance
for us to work together.
It's your own fault
for not taking my offer.
Enjoy the afterlife.
I'll just see myself out.
Hup!
Whew, that was close,
but I managed
to come out on top.
Master, I've returned!
Where are you?
[wind blows]
[crying] Did she leave me?
JYUBEI: What?
You threw that child
into the crucible of Kodoku?
YAWARAGI: I did. Her chances
of surviving are 50‐50.
[dice rattle]
JYUBEI:
Without her rouge, though,
I'd say her chances
are closer to 20%, even 10%.
It's certainly good training
for her if she lives.
‐ As a quarter‐demon,
Moroha will need all
the self‐discipline she can get.
If that child
were a pure‐blooded demon,
she'd be able to maintain
her strength of heart
and sense of identity,
regardless
of whatever came her way.
But for her, it's different.
‐ Hmm?
‐ With Moroha,
when she is forced
to fight for her life,
her great demon blood fully
takes control, changing her.
However, just like
the true meaning of her name,
she's a double‐edged sword.
Each time it happens, the more
her heart is washed away,
becoming a monster
that lives only to fight.
Wha?! [growls]
‐ So then, in order
to protect her from herself,
you made use of the rouge
and sealed away her demon blood.
‐ Actually the seal
was something that her mother,
Lady Kagome, had applied,
but I was able to teach her
how to dispel the seal
by transforming herself
into Beniyash‐‐Aw, damn it all!
‐ And because the girl
doesn't know any better,
she's come to rely
too much on the rouge
for her own good, yeah?
‐ [groans]
What a thorn in my side.
‐ Well, looks like
I won the game.
If you would kindly
hand me my earnings.
[coins rattle]
‐ [grumbles]
‐ I have to say I'm surprised.
Why go and sell off
your esteemed pupil
in a game for just three ryou?
‐ In order to train her
to maintain her sense of self,
I had to put her through
the crucible of Kodoku,
and the only way
I was able to pull that off
was to set it up through
the demon gambling house.
‐ And now you only have
two ryou left.
‐ What other choice do I have?
I need to get this Armor
of the Iron‐rat off of me
as soon as possible, after all.
‐ How much more
will it cost to do that?
‐ Going off an armor dealer
I spoke to,
a key can be made to remove it,
but it has to be made
by a blacksmith rat
and will cost 12 ryou
for it to be forged.
‐ I see. Then,
if you would allow me to, I‐‐
‐ [Moroha growls]
‐ BOTH: Hmm?
‐ There you are, you old hag!
‐ Hmm?
YAWARAGI: Oh, Moroha.
You managed to get out, huh?
‐ Don't give me that!
Why the hell didn't you
wait for me back there, huh?!
Did you seriously
go and sell me off
to the demon gambling house?
‐ Well, what was I
supposed to do?
I needed money
to play sugoroku, didn't I?
‐ I've had it up to here
with your gambling problem,
and I am over
being your student!
So now that my training's done,
I'll be taking Kurikaramaru
with me and heading out.
‐ Hmm?
Wait.
Your demon power
hasn't gotten stronger at all.
You didn't absorb
the Kodoku's powers?
‐ So what? I still won
in the end, didn't I?
And besides, why would
I wanna absorb something
from such a gross demon
like that, anyway?
‐ [laughs]
To have escaped
from the crucible of Kodoku
makes you
quite remarkable indeed.
‐ Who are you, old geezer?
‐ I'm Corpse Dealer Jyubei,
and I just so happen to work
in the business
of demons' bounties.
‐ Well, how very nice for you.
Anyways, Master‐‐
Wait a sec. Why am I
still calling you that?
I'm not your student anymore.
So listen to what I have to say!
Give me the sword you promised,
or you and I
are gonna have some words!
‐ Not so fast there, kiddo.
I have an idea for you, ma'am.
What if I were to pay off all
the debt you owe for the child?
‐ You'd do what?
‐ For pulling out
of the gambling house,
the Iron‐rat key for the armor,
and what you lost
in our sugoroku round,
how does a grand total
of 15 ryou sound to you?
‐ I'll take it!
‐ You didn't even hesitate!
‐ Very well! But first,
you must hand over
Kurikaramaru to the girl.
‐ [grumbles]
Okay, if that's part
of the trade, then...
‐ Uh‐‐
Wha? [sighs]
‐ All looks good.
Well, then,
guess this is farewell, Moroha.
‐ Uh, wait!
That's it?!
‐ Listen up.
‐ Uh...
As of today, you've been
generously leant 15 ryou
by me, Jyubei,
the corpse dealer,
and you will work
to pay off that debt
by hunting down bounties
for me.
‐ Like hell, I am!
Why do I have to be
the one responsible
for paying that money to you?
You trying to piss me off?!
‐ Then you're content to go back
and continue fighting
in the crucible of Kodoku
until you're old and weary?
That right?
‐ [groans]
‐ I didn't think so.
I'd go with the bounty hunting
if I were you.
‐ OK, fine.
You win, old geezer.
‐ "Mr. Jyubei" to you.
‐ OK, you win, "Mr. Jyubei."
[wind blowing]
MOROHA: It's been three years.
Been a while, hasn't it...
Yawaragi?
[wind blowing]
‐ Wow. You're still wearing
the Armor of the Iron‐rat?
You lose track of
the blacksmiths or somethin'?
‐ No. It took me a while,
but I was able
to find the blacksmith rat''
hidden village.
‐ Then why are you
still wearing that?
‐ I found the village, but
everyone had been slaughtered.
[music playing]
As you know,
my Armor of the Iron‐rat
and your Robe of the Fire‐rat
were created
in a blacksmith rats' workshop
deep in the mountains.
However...
What happened here?
[footsteps shuffling]
[scoffs]
‐ KONTON: Can't find it?
‐ [gasps]
‐ Would this be the key that
you've been searching for...
Yawaragi?
‐ Was this your doing?
‐ Rats are
such useless creatures.
I didn't need to kill them,
but I thought
it was just as well I did.
‐ "It was just as well"?
‐ Oh, on another matter,
I hear the Armor of the Iron‐rat
you're wearing
slowly shrinks
as the years go by.
Eventually, a cursed piece
of armor like this one
will shrink down
to the size of a rat,
fatally crushing
the victim's body.
‐ Just who are you, exactly?
‐ A servant to Lord Kirinmaru.
‐ You may address me
as Konton of the Four Perils.
‐ Konton.
‐ Although now
only two Perils remain.
Would you happen
to know who it was
that defeated Tokotsu,
one of our brethren,
and then stole
the Red Rainbow Pearl from him?
I think the answer
may surprise you.
It was none other than your
beloved former student, Moroha.
‐ [gasps] Moroha?
‐ I will give you
the key to that armor of yours,
but only in exchange
for Moroha's head.
Should you refuse my offer,
then I will destroy this key
here and now.
‐ Why don't
you just do it yourself?
Why even involve me
in the first place?
‐ [laughs]
If Tokotsu were still alive,
he'd enjoy a showdown
between master and student.
[laughs]
‐ [sighs]
‐ No way.
Konton wants them to fight?
‐ Deplorable.
‐ That's honestly fine with me.
It's not exactly
like I feel indebted to you
in the first place, you know?
So let's go ahead and give them
the showdown
that they're asking for!
‐ [chuckles] A fine response.
This is the reason why you
were worthy of being my student.
‐ [gasps]
‐ Don't help me out
on this one, guys.
This is a fight
between myself and Yawaragi.
‐ I heard that you have mastered
the Crimson Dragon Wave.
But how strong is it, really,
coming from a quarter‐demon
like you, I wonder.
‐ Well, why don't I
go ahead and show you?
‐ Crimson Dragon Wave!
‐ [dragon roars]
‐ [yells]
[groans]
‐ Moroha!
‐ Her technique was deflected.
It seems brute force
isn't gonna be enough.
‐ Fine. Let's see
how you handle this!
‐ [scoffs]
Is that the best you've got?
With spirit power this weak,
why not just hurl rocks?
‐ Heavenly Arrow Barrage!
[music playing]
‐ Take this!
‐ We're assisting you!
‐ Yeah! I can't just stand by!
‐ Don't butt in!
I said this was
just between Yawaragi and me.
‐ What?
You're resorting to that again?
‐ You fool! If you let fear take
from it and drive your actions,
you will only
be cheating yourself out
at the end of it all!
Have you forgotten my teachings
in overcoming that weakness?
‐ Shut up!
This is my power to use!
‐ If you only excel at fighting,
you're not a demon at all.
You're a monster!
‐ [yelping]
‐ A monster that has no fear,
but also cannot feel
physical or emotional pain
and, therefore, is unable
to understand
their opponent's pain, either.
Such a pitiful creature
as that...
‐ [yelps]
‐ is better off dead!
‐ Moroha!
‐ Hang on.
It sounds like she's trying to
teach her an important lesson.
‐ [groans]
‐ Fine then. Go ahead,
and use the power
of your rouge if you want,
but just remember
if you go through with it,
that you'll be nothing more
than a soulless puppet.
‐ [spits]
Without the rouge,
I can't win
against her, though.
‐ How truly pitiful you are.
You may be a quarter‐demon,
but you're
still fully incomplete.
At this rate, hope will always
be just outside your grasp.
‐ [growls]
‐ [chuckles]
You haven't changed a bit.
You're still the same Moroha
that I knew way back when.
‐ What's she talking about?
YAWARAGI:
Moroha, do not use your rouge!
‐ [wails]
MOROHA: She's right.
I haven't changed
at all since then.
[growls]
‐ Listen to me!
You have to fight against it!
‐ [shrieks]
‐ [groans]
‐ [shrieking]
‐ [squawking]
‐ [wails]
‐ I got you.
[birds squawking]
‐ Damn it. Reinforcements, huh?
‐ Looks like you're
in a spot of trouble.
‐ And who the hell are you?
‐ Just a humble armor dealer
passing through.
I saw that girl was wearing
the Robe of the Fire‐rat,
so I thought I'd recommend this
Armor of the Iron‐rat to you.
More demon power
and more defense.
With this armor,
those Birds of Paradise
will be no match for you.
The only thing you have to do
is insert this key
into the keyhole
located on my back here.
‐ [squawking]
‐ Hurry now.
The armor will shape itself
to fit you perfectly,
so don't you worry.
‐ Seems I don't have
much choice, do I?
‐ Hope you enjoy!
‐ Is this...
‐ [laughs] Yes, I'm free!
I was afraid that armor
was gonna crush me to death.
‐ What are you talking about?
‐ [laughs]
If you don't wanna die,
you'll have to pay someone
a rather handsome sum
to get a new key made and
get that armor off your body.
And you'll need to have
some poor sap unlock it for you,
just like what you did for me!
So this armor
was actually cursed?
‐ [squawking]
‐ I feel my power is surging.
So it really works, huh.
Scattering Winds!
‐ [squawking]
‐ That's right.
The armor,
the scars on her face,
they're all because of me.
Your Scattering Winds attack
was really something.
‐ I see. So you
were remembering that day.
‐ I won't use the rouge.
I have to prove to myself
that I can beat you on my own
without letting
the demon blood take control!
‐ Hmph. Very well then!
Let's move on to the final act
of our battle!
‐ Final act?
‐ I'm going to use
my Scattering Winds attack.
Get ready.
[Konton laughs]
The moment
you kill your former pupil
will be one that I relish
with great delight.
This key here will then be
all yours for the taking.
‐ [laughs]
‐ [growls]
Go and laugh it up
while you still can.
[wind blowing]
‐ [grunts]
OK, bring it on!
‐ Moroha, this all ends here.
Don't you dare let me
catch you holding back on me.
‐ I don't intend to.
‐ Then here I go.
Scattering Winds!
[memory] Don't lose faith.
You just have to use
the extent of your imagination
to seize victory.
‐ [grunts]
‐ What is she doing now?
‐ [yells]
‐ [dragon roars]
‐ Crimson Dragon Wave!
YAWARAGI: Well done, Moroha.
‐ [gasps] What in blazes...
‐ This is the finale
of the master‐student showdown
you wanted.
I hope that your life
was worth the cost.
‐ Foolish woman.
[Rainbow Pearl chimes]
‐ [gasps] What?!
‐ Yawaragi!
‐ Huh. The Blue Rainbow Pearl
was quite useful indeed,
unlike this.
‐ Damn you.
Scourge of Swallows!
‐ Until next time, half‐demons.
‐ He got away from us.
‐ What was that spell just now?
‐ Hey, Master Yawaragi, get up!
‐ You did well
out there, Moroha.
What you saw was
the Crimson Backlash Wave.
If you have learned that,
then I can die
without any lingering regrets.
‐ Don't talk like that!
‐ Never lose sight of that‐‐
that strength of heart, Moroha.
‐ [gasps] Master Yawaragi!
[music playing]
No. You can't be gone.
[crying]
Master!
[sobbing]
[music continues]
What exactly am I, anyway?
‐ Eh?
‐ I'm not really a demon,
not really a human.
I mean, hell,
I'm not even a half‐demon.
There's no place for me.
That's why
I had to make one for myself,
acting tough, causing a ruckus,
doing whatever
I could to survive.
I didn't know
any other way to live.
The fact I've managed
to survive 'til now
feels more like dumb luck
than anything.
I don't really see that changing
for me anytime soon.
‐ Well, that is a possibility.
‐ Huh?
‐ But it's never too late
to change the path you lead.
No matter
what might come your way,
how you want to live
is still up to you.
‐ [chuckles]
You got a point.
TOWA: It's OK.
You're not alone anymore.
We all have each other
to rely on now, don't we?
‐ We sure do.
MOROHA: Somehow...
it felt completely natural
having these two at my sid.
I hope...
you'd be proud of me for that,
Master Yawaragi.
[Japanese music playing]
TOWA: We set off
to slay Totetsu,
the demon who's been eating
virtuous monks,
but we end up falling
into Konton's strange trap.
SETSUNA: Towa, I want you
to cut me with your sword.
TOWA: But why? I can't do that!
MOROHA: How much deeper
does this valley go?
What's going on?!
KONTON: Enter through
the gate of opening,
and end at the gate of death.
TOWA: Next time on Yashahime,
"Trap of the Two Perils."
RIKU: Let's see if they
can snatch the Rainbow Pearls
from the Half‐Demon Princesses.